so i've now put on fresh gloves so there's no
bacteria on those and I'm in a position now that
i'm ready to vacuum seal the meat this is the
vacuum sealer now there's a lid that comes down
there's two heating bars one here one inside the
machine as the lid comes down the oxygen will be
removed from the bag sucked out of the bag the
heat sealer will seal that so the plastic bag
is secure and very sealed also as I pull this
down there is a bar here this is a safety bar
once it's gone through its process it's just
normally a minute and it's all sort of depending
on how long you want to do it the heat the actual
size of the bag and the amount of meat you're
doing at times as well it's going to go for a
minute this one and once it's sealed, this
lid will actually pop up so this is designed so
that lid will open but it won't shoot up because
it can be very dangerous if you some people looking at that and it shoots up
it could hit somebody under the chin so it can be
quite dangerous so at this point what I'm going
to do is going to take the meat and I'm going to
put it into the vacuum machine and we're going
to seal this, once the meat goes in you
always want to make sure that the plastic bag
is pushed over the heat sealing bar the heat
sealing bar when I bring the lid down will
automatically start to work so it's going to heat
that up as the oxygen has pulled out of the bag
then it's going to seal it securely so first thing
i know just pull this down and again through here
this is all on the timer this is going to go
for one minute with the pressure and with the
heat pull it down and then just flip over that
safety bar just hold it down and then you can
see as it sort of fills the bag with the air and
then it's going to remove everything out of it
so the vacuum sealer has now run for that one
minute so I'm just going to open it up remove
that safety bar the lid will come up and then
this is what it looks like we've got that vacuum
sealed product in the butcher shop, we
are able to prevent harmful bacteria growth with
five different steps oxygen, time, temperature, PH
level and moisture by vacuum sealing this meat
we have actually got through those critical points
we have removed the oxygen we've actually for the
temperature we can make sure that this is in the
fridge correct staying cold and also the moisture
we've removed the moisture from that too so that
is helping to prevent any harmful bacterial growth
harmful bacterias that grow in oxygen are
called aerobic bacterias so again by vacuum
sealing that we're removing that, there is another
type of bacteria called anaerobic and that grows
with the absence of oxygen and
an example of that would be botulism